This project was completed by Amy Chen, Jeffrey Liu, Claudia Ye in partial fulfilment of ECON-UB 0232, Data Bootcamp, Fall 2018. I certify that the NYU Stern Honor Code applies to this project. In particular, I have:

Clearly acknowledged the work and efforts of others when submitting written work as our own. The incorporation of the work of others - including but not limited to their ideas, data, creative expression, and direct quotations (which should be designated with quotation marks), or paraphrasing thereof - has been fully and appropriately referenced using notations both in the text and the bibliography.

And I understand that:

Submitting the same or substrantially similar work in multiple courses, either in the same semester or in a different semester, without the express approval of all instructors is strictly forbidden. 

I acknoledge that a failure to abide by NYU Stern Honor Code will result in a failing grade fo rthe project and course.

This is an analysis of the data reported by the Department of Housing Preservation and Development (HPD). HPD issues violations to rental dwelling units that have violated either Housing Maintenance Code or the New York State Multiple Dwelling Law.
Tenants can directly consult their landlord or file an official complaint if an issue is discovered in their apartment. These complaints are directed to the HPD, who in turn contacts the building's managing agent informing them of the complaint. The HPD will then follow up the complaint to ensure that the issue has been resolved and thus would close complaint. If the issue continues to be unresolved, the HPD would send a Code Inspector to check for housing or safety violations. The complaints are categorized into either class A, B, C, and I, with class A being least sever and class C being most severe, such as problems with heating and hot water (Class I cases are unique and indicate a serious hazard). The violations persist on file and the complaint cases remain open until the HPD can confirm that the owner has sufficiently corrected the condition.
With the increasing number of people moving into New York City, we wanted to analyze whether landlords are starting to break housing and preservation laws more often than before since most housing are becoming older and more expensive to maintain. With the dataset from NYC Housing Preservation and Development, we had access to housing data for the five boroughs in NYC, so we were able to narrow down which boroughs resulted in the largest number of violations. With that, we also wanted to see whether there is a correlation between complaints and violations (e.g. how often complaints turned into violations upon inspection). Ultimately, we wanted to have a better understanding of how HPD goes about maintaining housing in NYC and whether NYC’s population density in recent years has resulted in an influx of violations.
